README.md, before:

# [RED - Robot Editor](http://nokia.github.io/RED/)
## General information 

RED is modern editor based on Java IDEs (Eclipse, IntelliJ in future) to allow quick and comfortable work with [RobotFramework](https://github.com/robotframework/robotframework) testware.

**Latest release - [RED 0.8.1 (2017-11-23)](https://github.com/nokia/RED/releases/latest)**

### Install form Marketplace/Update Site

Marketplace: Click Help -> Eclipse Marketplace -> and type into Find field "RED"

Update Site: Click Help -> Install New Software -> Add and set address in Location to:

```http://master.dl.sourceforge.net/project/red-robot-editor/repository```

## RED Help
[RED Robot Editor's application help](http://nokia.github.io/RED/help/)

## What RED provides:
* text editor with validation and code coloring
* table editors like in Ride fully synced with source
* debug&remote debug with:
	* breakpoints
	* testcase stepping (step into, step over)
	* runtime variable lookup & modification
    * debugging Robot testcases and Python libs in one RED instance
* code assistance & completion for variables, keywords, testcases, resources and libraries
* real time testcase validation
* execution view
* support for plugins via Eclipse mechanisms
* support for Robot formats: .txt, .robot, .tsv (HTML format not supported)

## Binaries distribution:
RED is distributed as independent binary (RED as Eclipse product) and Eclipse feature to be installed on existing Eclipse binary.

Binaries can be found under Release folder:  [https://github.com/nokia/RED/releases/latest](https://github.com/nokia/RED/releases/latest)

Installation instructions can be found [here](https://github.com/nokia/RED/blob/master/installation.md)

## Look & feel
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nokia/RED/master/misc/img/READMEMD/basic_run.gif "Robot perspective with text editor")

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nokia/RED/master/misc/img/READMEMD/editors.gif "Editors")

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nokia/RED/master/misc/img/READMEMD/content_assist.gif "Content assist")

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nokia/RED/master/misc/img/READMEMD/validation.gif "Validation")

Commit message:

release update to reflect Oxygen only support

README.md, after:

# [RED - Robot Editor](http://nokia.github.io/RED/)
## General information 

RED is modern editor based on Java IDEs (Eclipse, IntelliJ in future) to allow quick and comfortable work with [RobotFramework](https://github.com/robotframework/robotframework) testware.

**Latest release - [RED 0.8.1 (2017-11-23)](https://github.com/nokia/RED/releases/latest)**

### Note about upgrading RED from 0.8.0 to 0.8.1
Due to internal changes to support Eclipse Oxygen API, RED Product 0.8.1 **cannot** be upgraded from earlier versions. 
For RED feature installed on Eclipse Neon,please upgrade your Eclipse platform: [https://wiki.eclipse.org/FAQ_How_do_I_upgrade_Eclipse_IDE%3F](https://wiki.eclipse.org/FAQ_How_do_I_upgrade_Eclipse_IDE%3F)

### Install form Marketplace/Update Site

Marketplace: Click Help -> Eclipse Marketplace -> and type into Find field "RED"
Update Site: Click Help -> Install New Software -> Add and set address in Location to:

```http://master.dl.sourceforge.net/project/red-robot-editor/repository```

## RED Help
[RED Robot Editor's application help](http://nokia.github.io/RED/help/)

## What RED provides:
* text editor with validation and code coloring
* table editors like in Ride fully synced with source
* debug&remote debug with:
	* breakpoints
	* testcase stepping (step into, step over)
	* runtime variable lookup & modification
    * debugging Robot testcases and Python libs in one RED instance
* code assistance & completion for variables, keywords, testcases, resources and libraries
* real time testcase validation
* execution view
* support for plugins via Eclipse mechanisms
* support for Robot formats: .txt, .robot, .tsv (HTML format not supported)

## Binaries distribution:
RED is distributed as independent binary (RED as Eclipse product) and Eclipse feature to be installed on existing Eclipse binary.

Binaries can be found under Release folder:  [https://github.com/nokia/RED/releases/latest](https://github.com/nokia/RED/releases/latest)

Installation instructions can be found [here](https://github.com/nokia/RED/blob/master/installation.md)

## Look & feel
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nokia/RED/master/misc/img/READMEMD/basic_run.gif "Robot perspective with text editor")

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nokia/RED/master/misc/img/READMEMD/editors.gif "Editors")

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nokia/RED/master/misc/img/READMEMD/content_assist.gif "Content assist")

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nokia/RED/master/misc/img/READMEMD/validation.gif "Validation")
